Hello and welcome to this lecture where we are going to generate a sprite.
She as you can see here it's one long one.
However again it is just one click to get there.
OK everyone this is going to be a really quick lecture because it is one click.
Now I'm joking we've got some other stuff to learn as we go here as well because there are a few things
that both apply to the previous filter and this one that will trip you up at some point.
So let's get going straightaway.
First of all the use of it.
Well if we go ahead and open up an animation that we've already made like this bouncing ball that we're
so familiar with at the moment we do not have to change the order of the layers so we don't have to
flip that up as we've done with the previous filter.
However this one when we go to filters and Sprite sheets right at the very bottom and create from layers
you can see that it creates a nice long spreadsheet.
However the issue with this if we have a look at the very top is it's two thousand five hundred and
sixty pixels wide.
Now that's beyond the 2048 hard limit that we're imposing.
So at this point you'd have to chop it up somehow.
And there's no way of putting things on other layers with this particular tool.
So in that case the other one would be more appropriate if you will sprite's however managed to fit
in this.
This would be a great way of working with it or indeed if you've got a target platform or happily take
that size texture.
Remember the issue is not necessarily whether or not the game engine or other application can initially
imported to and use it.
But if you're working on a mobile device you may find this is beat on the actual memory the graphics
memory that you can assign to your image and if it is one big image like this you'll come across some
problems.
But again that's up to you to decide where it's going and then making your spec from the specifications
of the target platform.
Okay so this is all very well we've just done one click and we got ourselves a spreadsheet.
Brilliant.
Now what's next.
Well occasionally you will run into an issue.
Now when I was playing around with this I came across this issue and it did make me scratch my head
for a moment.
So if I go back to the sunsets that we made a couple of lectures backed with these stars setting is
great everything's in the right order when we just go to filter's Sprite sheet and create from layers
we don't have to reorder anything.
You go.
I can't see anything.
Well just let me turn this back on so we can see the first one is we've got a faded first image in here.
Why's that happened.
Well we can have a look at that in more detail in a bit.
I'm guessing one of my players has the capacity turned all the way down.
But also there's this dead space at the very bottom where's all this come from.
Well what happens when you use these tools is it takes the actual layers themselves into account not
the canvas size.
So if we go ahead and issues the other tool just for reference and go filters combine and fuse layers
and I don't mind going to do this five.
You'll see we get the same thing here.
It's made it into a nice spreadsheet but it's automatically got this sort of banding in the middle and
that's come from somewhere.
We have a look at the source file itself.
We can see that the layer itself extends below the canvas and that is what is pushing this extra Alpher
into our scene.
The sky fits in the ground is shoved below the darkness itself is fine and the stars are also finds
it is this ground LA hair on every single layer that's giving us almost like an artificial padding around
our image that we don't necessarily want because we've got no control over that so it is important to
watch out for that it will happen from time to time if you've got something slightly off the screen.
It's going to change the dimensions in this case.
For instance if this ball itself had ended up in the final one so let's go to the final one actually
and recreate this in the final one here.
If the ball had ended up off slightly we would have ended up with a slightly different size final Sprite
sheet being generated.
Now we have a look at the order these are coming across.
This was absolutely fine.
We haven't got any outfit out and we've got one two three four five so we got 20 in total.
I am going to count these really quick.
We've also got 20 there.
However this first one is alferd out so we scroll down to this first one frame one the pastie is turned
all the way down if we turn that all the way up there we go we've got our image back and I'm happy with
that.
It's usually something as straightforward as that when you're working with a file if you've inadvertently
brought it across it will end up like that now.
Interestingly when we use this tool notice it's brought everything across with it including all the
multiple layers.
Apart from the last one.
It's a solid layer.
Well what's going on there.
Well it's because this solid layer at the top was visible when we run the tool.
If we go back and do that again but this time turn on all the other layers.
And of course turn the A pastie up on frame one.
Now if we go ahead and go to Sprite she can create from layers you can see not only have we got everything
in a row there and without the alpha.
We've also got one single layer that's come across.
And incidentally if we had hidden everything so you can't see anything.
Well let's go back to your original if we'd hidden everything so you can't see anything at all and run
the same thing again the Sprite she create from layers and then turn everything back on you notice we've
got the complete control of everything including that top layer as well.
So this has its advantages that we can make a sprite sheet that's still editable.
Whereas before when we did it.
These ones are not as editable as having all of the layers intact so you can fiddle with them.
Of course once we've done this we know that these bits are dead on the bottom we can actually go into
image camber size and the bottom bit I can set that to 64.
So it's not high enough to cause any issues and it's very hard to see the preview of the offset I'm
going to leave it as 0 0 and see what happens.
That's absolutely fine.
So it's taking zero zero is this top left hand corner.
In fact it's labelled 0 0 so everything is offset from there.
So that is quite easy to clean that up if you do have these extended outlets you don't want to go in
and have to do a lot of editing to your original image which could be a real pain to sort out.
And the challenge for this lecture is to create a sprite sheet using the Sprite sheet script test the
sprite's she works nice and straight forward go ahead pulls the video now and give that a go.
Oh OK everyone.
Welcome back.
Let's go ahead and just make sure we can make a spreadsheet using the Sprite sheet script.
Okay so here I've opened up guimpe refresh.
I'm going to go and find one of my other pieces of work for five.
And then we go ahead and open that for some reason took in e.on to do.
Right.
Let's have a look.
I've got plenty of options here.
I will do my portcullis slamming down and I'm going to use my flattened version but the XY f rather
than the GIF itself.
So I've got all my frames laid out there are 10 of them in total.
We can go to filter's now sprite's sheet create from layers and we can see here that it's actually extended
the frame.
No we don't want that extension but that's perfectly natural.
It's going to happen when we're just moving layers about as worthwhile knowing.
That and we can chop that off of course.
But this time we need to make sure we're the offset is not zero zero it's going to be a bit further
down.
But in this case I'm not quite sure how much further down it's going to be it might be worth setting
it at the very bottom down here.
You can see it's one hundred and eighty three.
So we just need to work it out from there.
I'm guessing this is going to be around 50 pixels tall or something along those lines.
But I can work around that.
Some going to do that.
First of all no go to the canvas size and set the offsets.
We I know is hungry 83 some of them are set the y value at 183 and have the new size the new height
and probably have to go in and do that by itself one to eight.
And this was going to be a hundred and eighty three now fat by moving it around I can see that it is
in fact minus 55 which makes sense.
There we go.
Yes all done.
That's right size.
Perfect.
So the final thing here to do is to export that as a P N G which is fine.
It's not kept the name because it's a new file.
I'm going to call it a port portcullis slam Sprite sheet and I'm going to export that.
Okay so now that that's done the next stage of course is to make sure that it works.
So let's go ahead and open up that file I've just made how we can see straighter ways the wrong size
so that set it a one to eight by 1 to weights and it's not got the right number of frames.
And as always I've not counted the number of frames for them.
See if I can do it from here yet it's 10 frames long there's no padding or anything else along those
lines.
Frame counts 10.
There we go slamming down and let's set this at the appropriate frame time which is 100 milliseconds.
Looks really good.
Let's zoom in so we can see what's going on.
I'm going to say that for.
There we go.
Perfect.
How did you guys get on.
I'd love to see your Sprite sheets.
Do share them over on the forum and I will see you in the next lecture.